---
status: published
date: 2023-09-21T22:28:42+01:00
title: "Subsurface"
tags: [TIL]
categories: [random]
---

Every time I find myself thinking I am the centre of the universe, I
do one of two things:

1. I look at the sky and imagine myself floating into space, naked (I
   can assure you, only 5 minutes of visualising yourself in front of
   the sun, without the protection of mother Earth, keeps your feet on
   the ground)
2. I read a Wikipedia page about some famous highly skilled person who
   should be considered the centre of our universe in my opinion. It
   helps me remove myself from my focus.

It happened to me again recently, and this time I picked [Linus
Torvalds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds). There are
some wizards out in the world, quietly turning it upside down,
revolutionising our way of living. And Linus is a prominent member of
this category. I realised it was the first time I actually read his
Wikipedia page. I knew (like everyone) that it's him who gave us the
[Linux OS kernel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_Linux),
effectively spawning an era of intense technological development in
the Western world. I mean, NASA is now [flying a helicopter with Linux
on
MARS](https://spectrum.ieee.org/nasa-designed-perseverance-helicopter-rover-fly-autonomously-mars)!
I also new that he created
[Git](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git#History), another major player
in the software industry (it actually go even beyond software), out of
frustration, but I didn't know about another major project he created:
[Subsurface](https://subsurface-divelog.org/). Also created out of
frustration, just because...why not? On Wikipedia, you learn that he
"developed an interest for scuba diving in the early 2000s", which is
the niche addressed by that software. I am not a scuba diver myself,
but I know a good friend of mine who is, and another one who is
tempted to do it, so it made me think about them, and any other scuba
diver who may stumble upon my blog (don't laugh, you don't know the
ways of the randomness of mother Nature!).

So there you have it: if you are a scuba diver, you can promote
Free-as-in-Freedom software by ditching your proprietary divelog
software for the **superior** (because Linus creates superior tools)
FOSS alternative that is Subsurface!
