---
draft: true
date: 2023-03-31T22:17:12+01:00
title: "Writing Again"
tags: [meta, ramblings]
categories: [personal]
---

A little less than 3 years have passed now since my last blog post. It
was a difficult one to write, as it was about the worst period of my
life so far: I lost my dad, quite unexpectedly, 4 months after the
birth of my first child.

What started as the most amazing year for me ended up being a little
bit awkward, as I discovered a lot of things about the inner workings
of my family (in the "cliché-esque" sense of a typical African family)
after the passing of my father, which I didn't like at all. One just
learns how to deal with this kind of stuff "on the job" right?

I am not very good at expressing my feelings out loud to other
people. But I am quite comfortable doing it in writing (and in the
most public way that is a blog post on the internet...weird). And I
can tell you, fellow reader, that during that period, dealing with
members of my family felt very stressful for me. I lived many
stressful situations before, from weeks of hunger in my childhood (I
will write about that soon), to uncertainty about studying engineering
abroad in my teenage years, but none was comparable. It was a strange
mixture of disappointment, sadness, anger, and obligation. Luckily, I
had the constant joy of daily interacting with my newborn child, which
made a huge difference in how I managed to not lose myself to these
feelings. However, a few things lost their meaning to me. I
disappeared from social media (deleted my Facebook account!), stopped
writing articles for my blog, stopped playing around with new
technologies, stopped reading anything that used to nourrish my
passion for learning, and many more.

But here we are, 3 years later, i've learned to live with the void
now, I've slowly regained interest to things that stimulate my mind,
and now I am ready to start writing about them again. As this year
started with a huge amount of interesting and over-hyped topics in the
technological sphere, I expect to have a lot to learn and comment on
that front. This short blog post is setting the motivation for
exciting texts to come.

P.S: I *promise*, this text has not been generated by an AI language
model, small, medium or large ;).
